Although cool, I think it's time for this
panning camera to go.
What we're going to add instead is we are
now going to implement an actual
player. Let PX
equal 80. Let
PY equal 160.
That's the player's X and Y position.
Let yVel equal 0.
That's how fast the player is falling.
const speed equals 10.
Now we're going to have to draw the
player, obviously. So let's make a new
function down here called draw player
with x and y parameters.
Now we're going to draw.fillstyle
equals grey,
draw dot fill rect
at x, y, then tileSize,
tileSize. So the player is the same
size as the tiles. Now we have to call
this function in the forever loop.
DrawPlayer
px + xOffset
py + yOffset.
That way the player is
able to be rendered properly.
At the moment, the player is floating, so
let's add some gravity. Let floor
equal 512. That is the position of
the ground, if you remember.
Now, if Py is
less than floor or
Yville is greater than zero,
then the player's in the air. So Py minus
equals Yville, Yville
minus minus. That's going to
create a gravity effect. Else
if PY greater than floor,
PY equals floor, Yvel
equals zero. And that stops the player
when the player touches the ground. So
now when we click run, we
get nice gravity effect and the player
sits flushly on the ground.
Now I think it's time that we add some
user input for the player. Let's make it
so we can move the player left and right.
If keyboard.includes
arrow left
px minus equals speed.
If px plus x
off is less
than 100,
then x off
plus equals Speed. This is
going to make it so that when you go to
the left, the
screen will start panning with the
character. Now, else if
keyboard.includes arrow right
px += this
time speed. If
px x off again,
is greater than 700
minus tileSize.
And then xOff minus equal speed thistime.
Now, when we run this, we can move the
player around, and when the player goes
too far right, it scrolls to the right,
or too far left, it scrolls to the left.
Now, let's add jumping. If
keyboard.includes
space or
arrow up
then
yvel equals 30.
Now when we push space or the up arrow,
the player goes soaring into the sky, but
it's uh The
player will go up forever, so we need to
put a limit. So we're going to put and
py equals floor. So the player has to be
on the ground for this to work. But now
we need to move floor up above
the player movement. So let's do that
really quick. Clean this up.
Now when we click run, the
jumping is much more controlled. And now
we have a pretty good working player
controller.